charg it!

现有的无线网多路径路由技术在建立端到端的路径时并没有考虑到链路状况的问题，这样的结果，建立的多条路径中会出现链路状态失衡的现象。例如，一个性能非常好的link和一个性能很差的link被分配到一个route上，整条route的性能表现为性能较差的link的性能，而此route中性能较好的link则并没有发挥出其最大作用。本文提出了一种充分利用链路带宽的基于机会的路径集选择方案，这种方案在数据包传输过程中充分利用多路径中各个路径中性能状况较好的link，仿真结果证明这种方案可以使端到端延时、吞吐率，带宽都相对于没有使用这种方案的多路径路由技术有较大提升。





这些特性致使这种网络成为一种灵活性和自适应性很高的网络，因此它可以被广泛的应用在很多领域。例如。。。但，在ad hoc网络中，节点由于低能量限制和无线网路的传输特性以及节点的移动性，导致了网络链路的时变性。这些原因是的ad hoc路由协议的抗毁性变得非常重要，当前的研究热点multi-path routing和opportunity routing就是针对ad hoc网络的这些需求而产生的。 



In many wireless networks, it is less costly to transmit a packet to any node in a set of eighbors than to one specific neighbor. For example, with unreliable wireless links, the probability of a packet being success-fully received by at least one node in a set of neighbors is usually greater than the probability of one specific node receiving it. This observation motivates the idea of opportunistic routing (OR) [1C4]. In OR, the next-hop routing decision is made after a packet has been transmitted, allowing a sender to opportunistically take advantage of outcomes that are inherently random and unpredictable. A key question is then to decide a priori, at each node, which neighbors should be candidate next-hops to reach a destination, and how to prioritize and select the effective next-hop when multiple candidates have received a transmission.

ExOR broadcasts each packet, choosing a receiver to forward only after learning the set of nodes which actually received the packet.

These traditional routing protocols choose the best sequence of nodes between the source and destination, and forward each packet through that sequence. In contrast, cooperative diversity schemes proposed by the information theory community suggest that traditional routing may not be
the best approach. Cooperative diversity takes advantage of broadcast transmission to send information through multiple relays concurrently.

takes advantage of the characteristics of wireless, rather than attempting to mask them. Instead of choosing a single route ahead of time, ExOR determines the path as the packet moves through the network, based on which nodes receive each transmission.


ExOR chooses each hop of a packet’s route after the transmission for that hop, so that the choice can reflect which intermediate nodes actually received the transmission. This deferred choice gives each transmission multiple opportunities to make progress. As a result ExOR can use long radio links with high loss rates, which would be avoided by traditional routing.

ExOR improves performance by taking advantage of long-distance but lossy links which would otherwise have been avoided by traditional routing protocols.

opportunistic routing (OR) takes full advantage of the broadcast features of wireless networks. OR determines the node as the next node forwarding packet, based on which nodes receive the packet, Instead of choosing a specific node proactively. The basic idea of OR improves throughput at the two aspects. firstly, it is more easily for packet to be successfully sent to an imspecific next top node. Secondly, some packets can be transmitted to destination through less hops. ExOR[] is a famour opportunistic routing protocol, which choice the next hop after packet transmission, so that reciever, which is the nearest with destination, forwards the packet. As a result, ExOR can be utilitiz effectively at long radio links with high loss rates, which would otherwise be avoidable at traditional routing.


传统网络机会路由是一种充分利用无线网广播特性的转发方式，机会选择下一跳的方式传输数据。如果上图所示，机会路由可以从两个方面增加吞吐量。如图所示，设置多个下一跳节点增加了接收方收到数据的概率，另外，也在概率上减少了多跳网络中端到端的跳数。




The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II describes the protocol mechanism in detail. Performance evaluation by simulation is presented in Section III and concluding remarks are made in Section IV.

The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II describes
EAX metric and candidate selection and prioritization.
Section III provides the OAPF design with details on RACK
and sliding window mechanisms. Section V presents evaluation
results of OAPF’s throughput performance. Section VI
discusses related work, and section VII concludes.

In the next section,we survey the applied work on multipath
routing and the theoretical results in path set selection.
Section 3 provides an overview of our approach. Section 4
describes the detailed operation and termination conditions
of our path selection. Section 5 describes an optimization
to further reduce the running time of our protocol. Section
6 demonstrates the efficiency and effectiveness of our technique
through a simulation study. Section 7 discusses the results and concludes.


The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the opportunistic path-set selection protocol mechanism in detail. Performance evaluation by simulation is presented in Section 3. The last section discusses the results and concludes.


Multipath routing protocols in ad hoc networks have been proposed in [], [], [], []. Both Ad hoc On-Demand Multipath Distance Vector routing protocol (AOMDV) [] and AODV-Backup Routing (AODV-BR) [] are designed based on the Ad hoc On Demand Distance Vector routing protocol (AODV). Another important work in this area is presented in [] called Split Multipath Routing (SMR), which is similar to DSR, and is used to construct multipath routing with maximally disjoint paths.


Split Multipath Routing. Split Multipath Routing (SMR) proposed in [12] is an on-demand multipath source routing protocol. SMR is similar to DSR, and is used to construct maximally disjoint paths. Unlike DSR, intermediate nodes do not keep a route cache, and therefore, do not reply to RREQs. This is to allow the destination to receive all the routes so that it can select the maximally disjoint paths. Maximally disjoint paths have as few links or nodes in common as possible. Duplicate RREQs are not necessarily discarded. Instead, intermediate nodes forward RREQs that are received through a different incoming link, and whose hop count is not larger than the previously received RREQs. The proposed route selection algorithm only selects two routes. However, the algorithm can be extended to select more than two routes. In the algorithm, the destination sends an RREP for the first RREQ it receives, which represents the shortest delay path. The destination then waits to receive more RREQs. From the received RREQs, the path that is maximally disjoint from the shortest delay path is selected. If more than one maximally disjoint path exists, the shortest hop path is selected. If more than one shortest hop path exists, the path whose RREQ was received first is selected. The destination then sends an RREP for the selected RREQ.

Ad hoc On demand Multipath Distance Vector (AOMDV)
AOMDV [13] is an extension to the AODV protocol for computing multiple loop-free and link-disjoint paths. To keep track of multiple routes, the routing entries for each destination contain a list of the next-hops along with the corresponding hop counts. All the next hops have the same sequence number. For each destination, a node maintains the advertised hop count, which is defined as the maximum hop count for all the paths. This is the hop count used for sending route advertisements of the destination. Each duplicate route advertisement received by a node defines an alternate path to the destination. To ensure loop freedom, a node only accepts an alternate path to the destination if it has a lower hop count than the advertised hop count for that destination. Because the maximum hop count is used, the advertised hop count therefore does not change for the same sequence number. When a route advertisement is received for a destination with a greater sequence number, the next-hop list and advertised hop count are reinitialized. 
AOMDV can be used to find node-disjoint or link-disjoint routes. To find node-disjoint routes, each node does not immediately reject duplicate RREQs. Each RREQ arriving via a different neighbor of the source defines a node-disjoint path. This is because nodes cannot broadcast duplicate RREQs, so any two RREQs arriving at an intermediate node via a different neighbor of the source could not have traversed the same node. In an attempt to get multiple linkdisjoint routes, the destination replies to duplicate RREQs regardless of their first hop. To ensure link-disjointness in the first hop of the RREP, the destination only replies to RREQs arriving via unique neighbors. After the first hop, the RREPs follow the reverse paths, which are node-disjoint and thus link-disjoint. The trajectories of each RREP may intersect at an intermediate node, but each takes a different reverse path to the source to ensure link-disjointness.


AOMDV algorithm extends AODV to build and store everal paths in the routing table, so that when one route is broken, it does not necessarily result in a new flood of route request packets. Instead, the source node can simply select the next available route from its tables.

This results in a route error message (RERR) which is sent back to the originator of the packet. Each intermediate node will also remove its table entry upon relaying the RERR.